Okay, so one operation you need to know about
is how to change the EC2 instance type.
So for example,
you want to go from a t2.micro to a t2.small,
maybe because you need more RAM
and more CPU for your application.
So this only works if your instance
is an EBS backed instance.
So the steps are to stop the instance,
then change the instance type,
and then start the instance again.
So let's connect to our instance,
and first we're going to create a file on it.
And then also look at the available memory.
So if I do echo "hello" into a text file
called hello.txt,
as we can see now we have that hello.txt
file available to us
and within it says the word hello. Okay.
If we do free minus m the screen to give us some
information around the memory, on our instance,
as we can see, we have 993 megs of memory, okay,
now let's close this
or I'll keep it in this app just to compare.
And I'm going to cancel this.
And I want to change the instance type
from micro to t2.small.
So to do so I'm going to stop my instance.
And once the instance has stopped,
I will be able to change its type.
So my instance is now stopped.
And what I can do is right click instance settings,
and then change instance type.
So you can see, we have a t2.micro right now,
but we can upgrade to a t2.small, for example,
if only to increase the size vertically
or to go to to go t2.nano
to go down. Okay.
But as we can see,
we can also choose any kind of a gap instance.
For example,
we can go into an r5dn.4xlarge,
and based on the instance type you choose, as you can see,
you get either an EBS-optimized instance,
which is enabled by default,
or if we go in and stay in the t2 range, for example,
t2.small, EBS-optimized is not supportive for this instance.
So EBS-optimized means that you are going to have better
throughput to your EBS volumes.
And this is available to newer type generations type of
EC2 instances.
For example, a t3
will have an EBS optimized type of instance. Okay?
So in this example, I'll just keep it as a t2.small.
Please know that if you do this,
then you're going to get the charges because the t2.small is
not part of the free tier,
so I will just apply it.
And now my instance type is t2.small.
Now, when I start my instance, okay,
and I'm going to start it,
what's going to happen is that's my EC2 instance.
When you stop and start an instance,
is going to be restarted on another physical
host within the AWS data center.
So that means that yes,
the instance will change its hardware. Okay.
But because the storage is EBS based,
this is a block device as an EBS volume,
then the data will remain the same.
And I will show you this in a second.
So I want to do is to wait for the instance to be running.
And here we go. And we want to yet, again,
connect to our instance.
So in this example,
I'm going to connect again, using the,
EC2 connect instance connect.
So let's try because probably instance is rebooting
and I am back in my the instance.
So we know that there's the same instance,
because if we look at the files we have hello world.txt,
hello.txt.
And if we look within it, we have the word hello.
So that means that our file system is the same,
but if you do free -m to look at some memory,
we can see that now we have 1,991 megabytes of Ram available
on this instance,
which is different from what we had from before. Okay.
So this is the whole power of using this resize
of the instance.
Now, just to close this off,
please stop your instance
and make sure you go back to your
t2.micro for the reason that you want to remain
within the free tier.
So to (indistinct) end the lecture,
I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.